AI freshness April: update evaluation and tokenizer docs (#52961)
dotnet/docs: docs/ai/evaluation/libraries.md

## Test integration

> The libraries integrate smoothly with existing .NET apps, letting you use existing testing infrastructure and familiar syntax to evaluate intelligent apps. Use any test framework (for example, [MSTest](../../core/testing/index.md#mstest), [xUnit](../../core/testing/index.md#xunitnet), or [NUnit](../../core/testing/index.md#nunit)) and testing workflow (for example, [Test Explorer](/visualstudio/test/run-unit-tests-with-test-explorer), [dotnet test](../../core/tools/dotnet-test.md), or a CI/CD pipeline). The library also lets you do online evaluations of your application by publishing evaluation scores to telemetry and monitoring dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The libraries integrate smoothly with existing .NET apps, letting you use existing testing infrastructure and familiar syntax to evaluate intelligent apps. You can use any test framework (for example, [MSTest](../../core/testing/index.md#mstest), [xUnit](../../core/testing/index.md#xunitnet), or [NUnit](../../core/testing/index.md#nunit)) and testing workflow (for example, [Test Explorer](/visualstudio/test/run-unit-tests-with-test-explorer), [dotnet test](../../core/tools/dotnet-test.md), or a CI/CD pipeline). The library also provides easy ways to do online evaluations of your application by publishing evaluation scores to telemetry and monitoring dashboards.
```

## Comprehensive evaluation metrics

> Data science researchers from Microsoft and GitHub built the evaluation libraries and tested them on popular Microsoft Copilot experiences. The following sections show the built-in [quality](#quality-evaluators), [NLP](#nlp-evaluators), and [safety](#safety-evaluators) evaluators and the metrics they measure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The evaluation libraries were built in collaboration with data science researchers from Microsoft and GitHub, and were tested on popular Microsoft Copilot experiences. The following sections show the built-in [quality](#quality-evaluators), [NLP](#nlp-evaluators), and [safety](#safety-evaluators) evaluators and the metrics they measure.
```

### NLP evaluators

> NLP evaluators evaluate the quality of an LLM response by comparing it to a reference response using natural language processing (NLP) techniques. These evaluators aren't LLM or AI-based; instead, they use traditional NLP techniques to perform text comparisons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NLP evaluators evaluate the quality of an LLM response by comparing it to a reference response using natural language processing (NLP) techniques. These evaluators aren't LLM or AI-based; instead, they use older NLP techniques to perform text comparisons.
```

## Cached responses

The library uses *response caching* functionality to persist responses from the AI model in a cache. In subsequent runs, if the request parameters (prompt and model) are unchanged, it serves responses from the cache for faster execution and lower cost.

## Reporting

The library supports storing evaluation results and generating reports. The following image shows an example report in an Azure DevOps pipeline:

:::image type="content" source="../media/ai-extensions/pipeline-report.jpg" lightbox="../media/ai-extensions/pipeline-report.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot of an AI evaluation report in an Azure DevOps pipeline.":::

The `dotnet aieval` tool, which ships as part of the `Microsoft.Extensions.AI.Evaluation.Console` package, includes functionality for generating reports and managing the stored evaluation data and cached responses. For more information, see [Generate a report](evaluate-with-reporting.md#generate-a-report).

## Configuration

> The libraries are flexible. Pick the components you need. For example, disable response caching or tailor reporting to work best in your environment. Customize and configure your evaluations, for example, by adding customized metrics and reporting options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The libraries are flexible and you can pick the components you need. For example, disable response caching or tailor reporting to work best in your environment. You can also customize and configure your evaluations, for example, by adding customized metrics and reporting options.
```
